[Docs] add sourcing from builder.io doc (#22650)
gatsbyjs/gatsby: docs/docs/sourcing-from-builder-io.md

---
title: Sourcing from Builder.io
---

[Builder.io](https://builder.io) has all the benefits of a modern headless CMS platform, plus the power of an easy to learn drag and drop editor that enables everyone to edit more than just content. Builder + Gatsby empowers your entire team to create performant and fully customizable pages quickly.

<img src="https://imgur.com/HjBWIbv.gif" alt="Editor example" />

---

> ## Quick Start

Reviewer: Looking at this content flow, I understand that there are two ways to get started with sourcing from BuilderIO: with the starter and following these instructions:

- Grab a free account at builder.io, this link will set you up with all the models used in the starter and some sample content to get you started.

- Find your public API key and add it to the src/config.js

However, these are not stated in this guide. Can we reduce the links to external sources by adding these instructions here or maybe in a prerequisite section?

Author: make sense I'll update

### Fresh project:

> To start on a fresh project quickly, take a look at the [BuilderIO Gatsby starter](/starters/BuilderIO/gatsby-starter-builder/)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To start on a fresh project quickly, use the [BuilderIO Gatsby starter](/starters/BuilderIO/gatsby-starter-builder/)
```

Following the directives above this should read properly

```shell

> gatsby new my-builder-site https://github.com/BuilderIO/gatsby-starter-builder

Reviewer: I followed this and ran into some interesting errors which were solved by updating the `@builder.io/gatsby` plugin. you might want to take a look at this .

Author: thanks @Ekwuno for reporting back,  can you elaborate? I wasn't able to reproduce on my end but I did notice that the package-lock.json is not copied when doing `gatsby new ...`

Author: adding yarn.lock here https://github.com/BuilderIO/gatsby-starter-builder/pull/3

Reviewer: Initially running gatsby new my-builder-site https://github.com/BuilderIO/gatsby-starter-builder and following the instructions gave this output ![](https://res.cloudinary.com/ekwuno/image/upload/v1586253138/Screenshot_2020-04-07_at_10.48.59.png)

I did an `npm install` to add a package-lock.json and ran an `npm i @builder.io/gatsby` and got this ![](https://res.cloudinary.com/ekwuno/image/upload/v1586254618/Screenshot_2020-04-06_at_14.44.58.png).. 

using the `yarn.lock` or `package-lock.json` depends on what package manager you are using. The instructions on the starter works as expected now though. 

These things can be weird sometimes 😅

```

### Existing project:

Make a free account over at [Builder.io](https://www.builder.io/) and grab your public API key from your [organization page](https://builder.io/account/organization) and:

```javascript:title=gatsby-config.js
const path = require("path")
module.exports = {
  plugins: [
    {
      resolve: "@builder.io/gatsby",
      options: {
        // public API Key
        publicAPIKey: "MY_PUBLIC_API_KEY",
        templates: {
          // `page` can be any model of choice, camelCased
          page: path.resolve("templates/my-page.tsx"),
        },
      },
    },
  ],
}
```

Then start building pages in Builder.io, hit publish, and they will be included in your Gatsby site on each new build!

> ### Using your components in the editor

Reviewer: Should this be its own section?

Author: I ended up removing it, using custom components is only optional and is mentioned in the starter and the plugin.

> See this [design systems example](/examples/react-design-system) for lots of examples using your design system + custom components

Reviewer: Maybe add any examples to an "Additional resource" section? It would help keep the reader focused on the guide. 
```suggestion
See this [design systems example](https://github.com/BuilderIO/builder/tree/master/examples/react-design-system) for lots of examples using your design system + custom components
```

Reviewer: I saw the video on  https://www.builder.io/c/docs/guides/components-only-mode  I am wondering if some of that information can be baked into this section so we can minimize the link usage and move this example to an additional resources section.

Author: yes I'll update 👍

👉**Tip: want to limit page building to only your components? Try [components only mode](https://builder.io/c/docs/guides/components-only-mode)**

Register a component

> ```tsx

Reviewer: Where is this file added?

Author: Anywhere in your codebase, as long as it's included in the bundle serving the page, in the starter it's imported here:
https://github.com/BuilderIO/gatsby-starter-builder/blob/bb6b57d4539c4802e6c8374f6bf217e45b047dbc/src/layouts/PageLayout.jsx#L6 with initialization code

 which in turn is imported in the template component 
https://github.com/BuilderIO/gatsby-starter-builder/blob/bb6b57d4539c4802e6c8374f6bf217e45b047dbc/src/layouts/PageLayout.jsx#L6

I'll update the readme with clearer instruction in this section.

import { Builder } from "@builder.io/react"

class SimpleText extends React.Component {
  render() {
    return <h1>{this.props.text}</h1>
  }
}

Builder.registerComponent(SimpleText, {
  name: "Simple Text",
  inputs: [{ name: "text", type: "string" }],
})
```

> ### How to Query

Reviewer: Query for the component? Can we clarify?

Author: Query model entries (pages, components), I'll clarify in the doc

> For an up-to-date complete examples take a look at our [Gatsby starter](https://github.com/BuilderIO/gatsby-starter-builder)

Reviewer: A lot of information points to the starter, can we focus on implementation and if the need arises to show an example we would highlight the specific part of the starter that shows this?

> ```graphql

Reviewer: I am not sure what this code block does.

Author: I'll update the doc to expand on this

---
title: Sourcing from Builder.io
---

[Builder.io](https://builder.io) has all the benefits of a modern headless CMS platform, plus the power of an easy to learn drag and drop editor that enables everyone to edit more than just content. Builder + Gatsby empowers your entire team to create performant and fully customizable pages quickly.

<img src="https://imgur.com/HjBWIbv.gif" alt="Editor example" />

---

## Quick Start

### Fresh project:

To start on a fresh project quickly, take a look at our [Gatsby starter](https://github.com/BuilderIO/gatsby-starter-builder)

```sh
gatsby new my-builder-site https://github.com/BuilderIO/gatsby-starter-builder
```

### Existing project:

Make a free account over at [Builder.io](https://www.builder.io/) and grab your public API key from your [organization page](https://builder.io/account/organization) and:

```javascript
// In your gatsby-config.js
const path = require("path")
module.exports = {
  plugins: [
    {
      resolve: "@builder.io/gatsby",
      options: {
        // public API Key

>         publicAPIKey: "MY_PUBLIC_API_KEY",

Reviewer: After setting up the starter, it suggests that the API key be placed in the `config.js` and is called here as `config.builderAPIKey`. This code block suggests otherwise. Can you clarify ?

Author: Hi @Ekwuno thanks for reviewing, this instruction for adding BuilderIO to an existing project in this case you only need the plugin, while the starter is to make it easy to start on a fresh project.

In the starter the `config.js` is just an abstraction so this apikey will be passed down to the @builder.io/gatsby plugin here

https://github.com/BuilderIO/gatsby-starter-builder/blob/e7985bf58ccdb85a1b75b5d7355b3a2a55ec7875/gatsby-config.js#L28

And the same key will be used to initialize `builder` instance here
https://github.com/BuilderIO/gatsby-starter-builder/blob/e7985bf58ccdb85a1b75b5d7355b3a2a55ec7875//src/builder-settings.js#L10
